---
title: "Lamb Kebabs, Tandoori Chicken, with Korma, and Spicy Goan Sauces"
date: 2024-06-01T18:00
---

I served the Lamb Kebabs, with pitta and some nice chutneys.  The chicken and sauces were served with fluffy basmati rice and chapattis.

## Lamb Kebabs

### Ingredients

#### For the lamb

- 225&ndash;250g (8&ndash;9oz) minced lamb from the shoulder or leg
- 1½ tablespoons vegetable oil, for brushing

#### For the marinade

- 4 tablespoons natural yoghurt
- 1½ tablespoons lemon juice
- 2.5cm (1in) cube fresh ginger, peeled and very finely grated
- 1 garlic clove, mashed to a pulp
- 1 teaspoon ground cumin
- ½ teaspoon ground coriander
- ¼ teaspoon cayenne pepper
- ¾ teaspoon salt

### Steps

1. Put the meat pieces in a stainless-steel or other non-metallic bowl. In a separate bowl, combine all the marinade ingredients and mix well with a fork. Hold a sieve over the meat and pour the marinade into it. Push this mixture through the sieve, extracting all the paste that you can. Mix the meat and the marinade well. Cover and refrigerate for 6&ndash;24 hours.
1. Preheat the grill to high. Thread the meat onto skewers. Balance the skewers on the rim of a baking tin so all the meat juices drip into the tin. Brush the kebabs generously with oil and place the baking tin under the grill. When one side of the meat becomes lightly browned, turn the skewers to brown the opposite side, ensuring you brush this side first with more oil.

---

## Tandoori-style Chicken

### Ingredients

#### For the chicken

- 1.25kg (2½lb) chicken pieces, skinned
- 1 teaspoon salt
- 3 tablespoons lemon juice

#### For the marinade

- 450ml (¾ pint) natural yoghurt
- ½ onion, chopped
- 1 garlic clove, chopped
- 2.5cm (1in) piece fresh ginger, peeled and chopped
- 1&ndash;2 fresh hot green chillies, roughly sliced
- 2 teaspoons garam masala
- ½ tsp Turmeric

### Steps

1. Cut each chicken leg into 1,5 cm (½") cubes. Spread the chicken pieces out on a large platter. Sprinkle one side with half the salt and half the lemon juice and rub them in. Turn the pieces over and repeat on the second side. Set aside for 20 minutes.
1. Meanwhile, make the marinade. Combine the yoghurt, onion, garlic, ginger, chillies and garam masala in a blender or food processor and blend until smooth. Strain the paste through a coarse sieve into a large bowl, pushing through as much liquid as you can.
1. Put the chicken and all its accumulated juices into the bowl with the marinade. Rub the marinade into the meat, then cover and refrigerate for 8&ndash;24 hours.
1. Preheat the grill to its maximum temperature. Remove the chicken pieces from the marinade. Thread the meat onto skewers. Balance the skewers on the rim of a baking tin so all the meat juices drip into the tin. Bake until internal tmeperature is 70°C. Add the meat from your skewers to your sauces for the last 5-10 minutes of the cook.

---

## Goan Sauce

### Ingredients

- 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper
- 1 tablespoon red paprika
- ¼ teaspoon ground turmeric
- 2 tablespoons ground coriander
- 1 teaspoon ground cumin
- 1 tablespoon lemon juice
- ¾ teaspoon salt, or to taste
- 3 tablespoons olive or groundnut oil
- ½ teaspoon brown mustard seeds
- 1 large shallot, cut into fine slivers
- 3 garlic cloves, cut into fine slivers
- 400ml (14fl oz) tin coconut milk, well stirred

### Steps

1. Put the cayenne, paprika, turmeric, coriander, cumin, lemon juice, salt and 100ml (3½fl oz) water in a bowl. Mix well to form a smooth paste and set aside. You can prepare this paste in advance of cooking the curry.
1. Put the oil into a large, deep frying pan and set it over medium&ndash;high heat. When the oil is very hot, put in the mustard seeds. As soon as they begin to pop &ndash; a matter of seconds &ndash; add the shallot and garlic. Cook, stirring, until they are golden brown. Stir in the spice paste and bring to a simmer. Turn the heat to medium&ndash;low, then cover and simmer gently for 10 minutes.
1. Add the coconut milk and bring to a simmer over medium&ndash;high heat. Once the sauce is bubbling, turn the heat to low and simmer, uncovered for 10 - 15 minutes.
1. Mix the chicken in, and cover for the last 5-10 minutes to allow the chicken to steam and absorb some of that lovely moisture.

---

## Creamy Chicken Korma with Almonds

### Ingredients

- 5&ndash;6 garlic cloves, coarsely chopped
- 2.5cm (1in) piece fresh ginger, peeled and chopped
- 50g (2oz) flaked almonds
- 5 tablespoons olive or groundnut oil
- 2 bay leaves
- 8 cardamom pods
- 4 cloves
- 2.5cm (1in) stick cinnamon
- 1 onion, finely chopped
- 1 tablespoon ground cumin
- 1 tablespoon ground coriander
- ¼ teaspoon cayenne pepper
- 1 tablespoon tomato purée
- 1¼ teaspoons salt
- 3 tablespoons single cream
- ½ tablespoon garam masala

### Steps

1. Put the garlic, ginger, almonds and 6 tablespoons water into a blender and blend to a smooth paste. Put the oil in a wide pan and set it over medium&ndash;high heat. When the oil is very hot, put in the bay leaves, cardamom pods, cloves and cinnamon stick and stir for 10 seconds. Add the onion and cook, stirring, until browned.
1. Reduce the heat to medium and add the paste from the blender, along with the cumin, coriander and cayenne. Stir for 3&ndash;4 minutes, then add the tomato purée and stir for a minute longer.
1. Add the salt, cream, garam masala and 150ml (¼ pint) water. Bring to a simmer, then cover the pan, turn the heat to low and simmer gently for 25 minutes,.
1. Mix the chicken in, and cover the pan again 5-10 minutes to allow the chicken to steam and absorb some of that lovely moisture.
1. Remove the cinnamon stick and bay leaves just before serving.